Dissertation on
An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting
Submitted in partial fulfilment of the requirements for the award of degree of

Bachelor of Technology
in
Computer Science & Engineering
UE20CS390B– Capstone Project Phase - 2
Submitted by:

Aishwarya N

PES1UG20CS024

Haria Mehkhad

PES1UG20CS159

Shashank R

PES1UG20CS689

Vinay Kumar S

PES1UG20CS701

Under the guidance of

Dr. Shruti Jadon
Associate Professor

PES University
August - December 2023
DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
FACULTY OF ENGINEERING
PES UNIVERSITY

(Established under Karnataka Act No. 16 of 2013)
100ft Ring Road, Bengaluru – 560 085, Karnataka, India

PES UNIVERSITY

(Established under Karnataka Act No. 16 of 2013)

100ft Ring Road, Bengaluru – 560 085, Karnataka, India

FACULTY OF ENGINEERING

CERTIFICATE
This is to certify that the dissertation entitled

An NFT Based Approach to Invoice Discounting
is a bonafide work carried out by
Aishwarya N

PES1UG20CS024

Haria Mehkhad

PES1UG20CS159

Shashank R

PES1UG20CS689

Vinay Kumar S

PES1UG20CS701

in partial fulfilment for the completion of seventh semester Capstone Project Phase - 2 (UE20CS390B) in the Program of
Study - Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering under rules and regulations of PES University,
Bengaluru during the period August 2023 - December 2023. It is certified that all corrections/suggestions indicated for
internal assessment have been incorporated in the report. The dissertation has been approved as it satisfies the 7th-semester
academic requirements in respect of project work.

__________________
Signature
Dr. Shruti Jadon
Associate Professor, CSE

__________________
Signature
Dr. Mamatha H R
Chairperson, CSE

__________________
Signature
Dr B K Keshavan
Dean of Faculty

External Viva
Name of the Examiner

Signature with Date

1. ________________________

_________________________

2. ________________________

_________________________

DECLARATION
We hereby declare that the Capstone Project Phase - 2 entitled An NFT based approach to
Invoice Discounting has been carried out by us under the guidance of Dr. Shruti Jadon,
Associate Professor, Dept. of CSE, PES University and submitted in partial fulfilment of
the completion of the seventh semester of Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science
and Engineering of PES University, Bengaluru during the academic semester August December 2023. The matter embodied in this report has not been submitted to any other
university or institution for the award of any degree.
Aishwarya N

PES1UG20CS024

____________________

Haria Mehkhad

PES1UG20CS159

____________________

Shashank R

PES1UG20CS689

____________________

Vinay Kumar S

PES1UG20CS701

____________________

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
We would like to express our gratitude to Dr. Shruti Jadon, Department of Computer Science and
Engineering, PES University, for her continuous guidance, assistance, and encouragement throughout the
development of this UE20CS390B- Capstone Project Phase - 2.
We are grateful to the project coordinator, Dr. Priyanka H, the panel members & the supporting staff for
organizing, managing and helping the entire process.
We take this opportunity to thank Dr. Mamatha H R, Chairperson, Department of Computer Science
and Engineering, PES University, for all the knowledge and support we have received from her.
We are grateful to M. R. Doreswamy, Chancellor of PES University, Prof. Jawahar Doreswamy,
Pro-Chancellor of PES University, Dr. Suryaprasad J, Vice-Chancellor of PES University, Dr. B. K.
Keshavan, Dean of Faculty of PES University for providing us with various opportunities and
enlightenment every step of the way.
Finally, we would like to thank our family and friends for their continual support and encouragement
without which this project could not have been completed.

ABSTRACT

Blockchain technology has been a potent tool for facilitating safe and decentralised online transactions
since the creation of Bitcoin in 2009. In addition, the use of smart contracts by Ethereum and other
blockchains has revolutionised a variety of sectors, including supply chain management, healthcare, and
real estate in addition to finance and real estate. Businesses can obtain quick access to capital by selling
their past-due bills to a financing company at a discount, a tactic known as invoice discounting. But this
process is often hampered by issues like fraud, lengthy processing periods, and excessive costs. With the
use of blockchain technology, this project seeks to offer a decentralised, secure platform for invoice
financing that eliminates the need for middlemen and enables faster, more cost-effective processing.
Using the ERC-721 standard, the platform will be constructed on top of the Ethereum blockchain and
allow for the creation of unique, non-fungible tokens (NFTs) that can be used as invoice substitutes. The
transactions of these NFTs will be stored on the Ethereum blockchain, ensuring their traceability,
transparency, and immutability. The portal will allow small and medium-sized enterprises to generate
invoices based on Net Factor Technology (NFT) and forward them to the finance firm. After the invoices
are paid, investors can buy these NFTs and get a return on their investment. The full Smart contracts will
be used to automate the process, ensuring safe and automatic payment processing.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter No.

Title

Page no.

1.

INTRODUCTION

1

2.

PROBLEM STATEMENT

4

3.

LITERATURE REVIEW

5

4.

DATA

11

4.1 Overview
Case Study 1
Case Study 2

5.

METHODOLOGY
5.1 Overview of Implementing NFTs for Invoice
Discounting

15

5.1.1 What is Invoice Discounting
5.1.2. Integrating Invoice Discounting with blockchain

5.1.3. NFTs in Invoice Discounting
5.2. Implementing the system
5.2.1 Algorithms used

5.3 Benefits of the system
5.4 Challenges and Considerations
5.5 Conclusion
6.

RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

28

7.

CONCLUSION

30

8.

CONCLUSION OF WORK FOR PHASE - 2

32

9.

FUTURE WORK

33

REFERENCE/ BIBLIOGRAPHY
APPENDIX A DEFINITIONS, ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

LIST OF FIGURES
Figure No.

Title

Page No.

1

Flow diagram of Invoice Discounting

3

2

Pie chart of benefits

14

3

System Design - Implementation
Architecture

22

4

Implementation of Smart Contract

23

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

CHAPTER 1
INTRODUCTION
A business can sell its invoices or accounts receivable to a third party—typically a financial
institution or factoring company—at a discounted price in exchange for quick cash flow
through an invoice discounting arrangement. Based on the amount of the outstanding
invoices, the business obtains a cash advance; when the invoices are past due, the third party
collects the entire amount from the business's clients. This is a well-liked choice for
companies who want cash flow to support their daily operations yet have a large number of
outstanding invoices. Small and medium-sized enterprises who need to finance expansion or
are having cash flow problems may find this especially helpful. A company gives a financial
institution a list of all of its outstanding invoices to start the invoice discounting procedure.
After that, the third-party assesses the bills to ascertain their worth and the risk involved in
getting paid. The third party makes a cash advance offer to the company based on this
assessment, offering a portion of the entire invoice value. The third party has the
responsibility for collecting payments from the firm's clients once the business accepts the
cash advance. For this service, the third party may charge a fee, which could be a fixed price
or a percentage of the overall invoice amount. The primary advantage of invoice discounting
is that it might be more accessible than other financing options, such as bank loans. In this
case, the creditworthiness of the company's clients is more important to the third party than
the company's own creditworthiness. Therefore, companies with short credit histories or low
credit scores could nonetheless be eligible for invoice discounting. Blockchain, a
decentralised digital ledger technology, has shown promise in addressing the issue of online
transaction trust. The technology makes it possible for safe, transparent transactions to occur
without the need for middlemen, which lowers costs, boosts productivity, and does away with
the requirement for a central authority. A network of computers, or nodes, verifies

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 1

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

transactions on the blockchain by applying sophisticated algorithms to validate and confirm
the transaction. Upon validation, a transaction is entered into the blockchain, thereby creating
an impenetrable record of the transaction.
Among the most exciting uses of blockchain technology are smart contracts. These are
self-executing contracts built on top of blockchain technology that make it possible for
parties to automate their contractual obligations. It is possible to create smart contracts to
run when specific events occur, such as receiving cash, receiving a delivery, or performing a
service. By doing away with the need for middlemen, this lowers transaction costs and
boosts transaction efficiency. There are uses for smart contracts in many different sectors,
such as supply chain management, insurance, and real estate. NFTs, or non-fungible
tokens, are distinct digital assets that are kept on a blockchain and aren't tradable or
convertible into other assets. The way we view ownership, value, and trade of digital assets
has been completely transformed by NFTs. They have opened up new markets for
distinctive digital assets and made it possible to monetize digital items like music and art.
The potential applications of NFTs in supply chain management and identity verification
are also being investigated. In these domains, NFTs can offer a transparent and safe means
of tracking goods and confirming authenticity. All things considered, NFTs, smart
contracts, and blockchain technology have the power to completely change a number of
industries and the way we conduct business.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 2

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

Figure 1: Flow diagram of Invoice Discounting

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 3

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

CHAPTER 2
PROBLEM STATEMENT
One appreciated financing technique that helps businesses acquire quick payment for their
outstanding invoices is invoice discounting. while they await payment from their clients for
the unpaid bills. This gives companies access to instant cash flow, which is beneficial to their
operations. Only a small number of SEBI-approved Indian businesses serve as middlemen
between investors and invoicing companies, collecting fees from both. Historically, invoice
financing has been a tedious, time-consuming process that requires a lot of paperwork and
carries a big risk for the financing provider. The primary dangers and issues with the
conventional system are:
- Having faith in the intermediaries that oversee the procedure.
- A fee that the middlemen set.
- False and counterfeit invoices being distributed.
- A delay in confirming the invoices' accuracy and authenticity
- Funding the invoice that was previously discounted (Invoice Double Spending)

By utilising cutting-edge technologies like blockchain and NFTs (non-fungible tokens), this
project offers a creative solution to these challenges. It addresses all of the aforementioned
issues and offers a decentralised, safe, and user-friendly platform for invoice financing.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 4

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

CHAPTER 3
LITERATURE REVIEW

[1] Jie Zhang and Lyn C. Thomas, "The impact of adding economic variables to credit
scorecards: an invoice discounting example," 2015. The study demonstrates how adding
economic factors to a credit scorecard increases the scorecard's ability to forecast outcomes.
Even when the state of the economy fluctuates, a scorecard like this one can predict default
rates with accuracy. The article then uses this expansion of credit score to address an actual
invoice discounting issue. This is the process by which banks provide small businesses with
loans secured by the invoices the companies have generated.

[2] A Fraud-Resilient Blockchain-Based Solution for Invoice Financing, Meriem Guerar,
Alessio Merlo, Mauro Migliardi, Francesco Palmieri, and Luca Verderame, 2019. The authors
of this paper suggest an invoice financing platform built on a public blockchain that allows for
both fully open and invoice auctions with group restrictions. By putting the private
information encrypted in IPFS and the associated hash in the smart contract stored on the
Ethereum blockchain, they have solved the confidentiality problem. The blockchain-based
solution benefits from the primary characteristics of the public blockchain that are necessary
for invoice financing systems, including transparency, immutability, trustworthiness, and
security, while also guaranteeing data confidentiality. Additionally, our platform includes a
reputation system that is computed using the blockchain global ledger and is based on the past

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 5

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

behaviour of entities. A reputation system like that permits insurance providers to adjust the
price of the policies they offer.

[3] "Invoice Discounting: A Blockchain-Based Approach," published in 2019 by Nadia
Fabrizio, Elisa Rossi, Andrea Martini, Dimitar Anastasovski, Paolo Cappello, Lorenzo
Candeago, and Bruno Lepri. In this research, the authors present the Distributed Ledger
Invoice, a blockchain-based invoice discounting system. We also provide a new evaluation
technique for existing blockchain systems for the invoice discounting scenario. Additionally,
they go over two key topics pertaining to interoperability and information accessibility. Since
blockchain technology is still in its infancy, interoperability is especially important for its
adoption in inter-banking operations, where many blockchain solutions may be employed. In
this study, they propose a decoupling layer to unify the access control to reserved information
across diverse blockchains, based on the Attribute-Based Access Control language.

[4] Lennart Ante, "Markets for non-fungible tokens (NFTs) on the Ethereum network,"
2021. This article introduces NFTs and uses data from the Ethereum blockchain
between June 2017 and May 2021 to examine the 14 largest submarkets. The studies
depend on three factors: (a) the quantity of NFTs sold; (b) the amount of money traded
for NFTs; and (c) the quantity of distinct blockchain wallets used to sell NFTs. The
popularity of the CryptoKitties project led to a peak in the Ethereum-based NFT
market towards the end of 2017, based on the quantity of wallets and transactions.
They discovered that NFT submarkets have a variety of causal short-run relationships

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 6

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

with one another and are cointegrated. The performance of more established
marketplaces has an impact on the acceptance or success of newer NFT projects. In
addition, the more established initiatives are impacted by the success of the emerging
markets. The findings add to our knowledge of the NFT phenomenon generally and
imply that NFT markets are still developing or even inefficient.

[5] Mustafa Bal and Caitlin Ner, "NFT Racer: A Proof-of-Concept for Non-Fungible Token
Tracking with Hyperledger Fabric," 2019. The authors of this work have suggested NFTracer,
a proof-of-concept for tracking non-fungible tokens based on the Hyperledger Fabric
Blockchain and Hyperledger Composer. They have utilised NFTracer to develop an artwork
auction and a real estate auction, which vary in technical complexity and highlight the benefits
of being able to track entities and their resulting modifications in a decentralised way. This has
allowed them to accomplish the capabilities of our platform.

[6] Invoice factoring registration based on a public blockchain, Nasibeh Mohammad Zadeh,
Sadegh Dorri Nogoorani, and Jose Luis Munoz-Tapia, 2021. The authors of this paper have
put up a public blockchain-based architecture for invoice factoring registration. They use a
smart contract in place of reliable third parties for factoring registration in order to address the
aforementioned issues. They capture unambiguous digital proof of factoring agreement terms
and conditions via a smart contract, enabling auditability and dispute settlement. On the
blockchain, pertinent data is highly accessible while maintaining privacy. Since each invoice
factoring only requires a single blockchain transaction and key-value storage, the registration

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 7

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

is ideal.

[7] "Blockchain-based Double Spending Prevention for Invoice Financing," Pradnya Patil and
M. Sangeetha, 2021. Double spending as a result of poor communication between financial
institutions and information security is one of the main issues with invoice financing. To get
beyond these obstacles, using blockchain technology for invoice financing could be a
significant advance. The authors of this paper describe a blockchain scheme based on
Hyperledger Fabric that will help avoid fraudulent attempts at double-spending. It will also
secure invoice data, allowing for immutability. Findings indicate that blockchain technology
can be a useful tool for ensuring security, openness, decentralisation, and preventing
duplication of expenses.

[8] Sante Dino Facchini, Alessio Susco, and Giovanni De Gasperis, "Decentralised
Autonomous Organisations for Tax Credits Tracking," 2022 Over the past ten years, fiscal
bonuses and tax credit stimulus have had a significant impact on the Italian economy. Scams
and frauds have increased in proportion to the massive growth in construction. This article's
goal is to create a potential system that uses a Decentralised Autonomous Organisation
architecture enhanced with a Multi-Agent System to develop controllers to monitor and
manage the entire tax credit process from creation to redemption.

[9] The Evolution of Non-Fungible Tokens: Complexity and Novelty of NFT Use-Cases,

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 8

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

Andrew Park and Jan Kietzmann, Peter B. Gustavson, 2022. The writers of this piece explore
how NFTs came to be, starting with their technological roots, the advent of blockchain
technology, and the initial token-based collectables that paved the way for the creation of
contemporary NFT goods. We classify the use cases that NFTs are currently being used for,
outline possible future uses for them, and draw attention to the difficulties managers are
having integrating them into their current workflows.

[10] NFT-Based Traceability and Ownership Management of Medical Devices, Senay A.
Gebreab, Haya R. Hasan, Khaled Salah, and Raja Jayaraman, 2022. For a dependable and
effective medical device traceability system and ownership management solution, the authors
of this paper have proposed a non-fungible token (NFT) based solution that makes use of
blockchain smart contracts, integrates tokenization protocols, and makes use of a
decentralised storage system. NFTs are employed in the proposed system to symbolise the
medical device's digital twin. Throughout the medical device's life cycle, from manufacture,
manufacturing, distribution, and mobility to current use and ownership, its digital twin records
the required metadata and the device's attributes.

[11] A Non-Fungible Token Solution for the Track and Trace of Pharmaceutical Supply
Chain, Ferdinando Chiacchio, Diego D'Urso, Ludovica Maria Oliveri, Alessia Spitaleri,
Concetto Spampinato, and Daniela Giordano, 2022. This paper presents a decentralised
method based on non-fungible tokens (NFTs) that can enhance the standard serialisation
process's track and trace capabilities. Non-fungible tokens are created on the blockchain and

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 9

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

comes with all the benefits that this technology has to offer. Track and trace will be adopted
much more frequently as blockchain technology gains traction.

[12] "Invoice Discounting using KELLY criterion by Automated Market Makers-Like
Implementation," Peplluis R. Esteva, Alberto Ballesteros Rodríguez, 2023. The Kelly
criterion is used to determine the ideal premium to be provided to a liquidity pool in the
funding of the aforementioned invoices. This formula measures the contributed collateral and
the invoice transactions with risk. The algorithm's behaviour is examined in a number of
situations involving streams of bills with representative amounts, collateral, late payments,
and more, or non-payment rates. After using the Kelly criterion, a decentralised market was
created that is quite resilient to a range of invoicing scenarios and yields stable profits for
liquidity providers. Several premium distribution schemes were also examined, which added
even more resilience to the performance of the algorithm.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 10

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

CHAPTER 4
DATA
4.1 OVERVIEW:
Concerns regarding data security and privacy arise when private invoice information is stored
on a shared or public blockchain. The transaction history kept on public blockchains, like the
Ethereum and Bitcoin networks, is transparent and unchangeable, making it accessible to
everybody. Although this openness is advantageous for auditability and trust, it may reveal
private invoice data to uninvited parties.
Some strategies that can be used to reduce the risks to data privacy and security in
blockchain-based invoice systems are as follows:
The encryption process: To guarantee that only authorised individuals possessing the
decryption keys can access sensitive information, invoice data must be encrypted prior to
being stored on the blockchain. This aids in maintaining the data's confidentiality.
Permissioned blockchains: Sensitive invoicing data is kept secret by implementing a
permissioned or private blockchain, which limits access to authorised parties only. By
limiting the visibility of transactions to a specific group of participants, this strategy improves
data privacy.
Off-chain storage: Sensitive information can be encrypted and stored off-chain rather than
being stored in its entirety on the blockchain. This allows the blockchain to maintain its
immutability and transparency while protecting sensitive data by storing only the references
or proofs that are required.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 11

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

Case Study 1: Quick Verification and Lower Expense
Company A (Standardised): Manufacturing company Company A switched to invoice finance
based on blockchain technology. Before the change, they needed an average of twenty days to
verify an invoice, which involved a lot of paperwork and several middlemen. The verification
time dropped dramatically to just two hours once blockchain technology was
implemented—a 90% decrease. Because of the significant improvement, Company A was
able to save almost $15,000 in operational costs for each transaction. This was mostly
because of fewer man-hours and more efficient procedures.

Case Study 2: Reducing Fraud and Boosting Credibility
Investor Firm B (Pseudonymous): In conventional finance models, Investor Firm B
consistently struggled with false invoicing. After incorporating blockchain technology into
their operations, they saw an astounding 95% drop in fraudulent activity. A strong defence
against fake invoices was offered by the blockchain ledger's transparency and immutability. In
addition to shielding Investor Firm B from possible losses, this increased security helped to
rebuild their confidence in their investment choices.

Example 1: Global Accessibility and Real-time Financing
Provider C (Intelligent): Supplier C tokenized its invoices, turning them into immediately
tradeable assets, by utilising NFTs and blockchain technology. Supplier C made real-time
financing possible by converting invoices into NFTs. No matter where they were located,
investors could access and finance bills in a matter of minutes. In addition to accelerating
Supplier C's cash flow, this ground-breaking strategy drew in a worldwide investor base,
broadening their source of finance and increasing their market penetration.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 12

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

Example 2: Comparative Evaluation with Leaders in the Industry
A leading traditional finance company and a cutting-edge blockchain-based invoice financing
platform were compared:
• Conventional Finance Company D: This business depended on traditional techniques,
requiring several middlemen and a 25-day verification period on average. Fraudulent invoices
were occasionally encountered, and their process resulted in expensive transaction fees.
• Hypothetical Blockchain-Based Platform E: Platform E, on the other hand, used blockchain
technology to do away with middlemen and cut the verification process down to an
astounding three hours. The immutable ledger of the system drastically decreased transaction
costs by 70% and essentially eradicated fraudulent operations.

Benefits of invoice discounting using NFTs
Verification Time Reduction: represents how blockchain-based solutions can reduce
verification times compared to traditional techniques.
Fraud Mitigation: shows a decline in fraudulent activity, improving financing process security
and trust.
Real-time Financing & Global Accessibility: draw attention to the advantages of having
access to invoices in real-time and throughout the globe, which opens up new funding
alternatives.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 13

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

Figure 2: Pie chart of benefits

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 14

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

CHAPTER 5
METHODOLOGY
5.1 Overview of Implementing NFTs for Invoice Discounting

5.1.1 What is Invoice Discounting
Through invoice discounting, companies can release cash that is connected to overdue bills
through a type of short-term lending. Businesses can sell their outstanding invoices to a
third-party financial institution (such as a bank or specialised invoice financing company) at a
discount as an alternative to waiting for clients to pay invoices on their due dates. A portion
of the invoice value, usually between 70 and 90 per cent, less any discount or fee assessed by
the finance provider, is made immediately available to the company. The finance provider
gives the business the leftover amount (less any additional costs) once the consumer pays the
invoice. By gaining access to money held in outstanding bills, it helps companies with their
cash flow.

5.1.2. Integrating Invoice Discounting with blockchain
By utilising blockchain technology's primary characteristics in a multitude of ways, invoice
discounting integration transforms the financial environment. First off, trust is fostered
amongst parties engaged by the transparency provided by blockchain's immutable ledger,
which guarantees an understandable record of transactions. Blockchain's cryptographic
features strengthen security, which is a top priority in financial transactions. This reduces the

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 15

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

chance of fraud and maintains data integrity throughout the discounting process. The use of
smart contracts streamlines operations by automating and quickening processes, decreasing
the need for middlemen, and releasing funds more quickly when predetermined requirements
are met. Moreover, this expedited procedure lowers administrative overheads and speeds up
enterprises' access to finance, both of which result in cost savings. In addition to these
benefits, blockchain's decentralised structure makes it easier for entities from different
geographical areas to interact globally. When taken as a whole, these factors result in a
revolutionary change that improves accessibility, efficiency, security, and transparency while
lowering expenses and changing the invoice discounting market.

5.1.3. NFTs in Invoice Discounting
An interesting use case for blockchain technology is the tokenization of invoices as NFTs
(Non-Fungible Tokens) in the context of invoice discounting. Each invoice becomes a unique,
indivisible digital asset on the blockchain when they are represented as NFTs. The invoice
amount, issuer, due date, and other relevant information are all encapsulated in the NFT by
means of this tokenization procedure. Within the blockchain ecosystem, each invoice
becomes instantly identifiable, trackable, and irreplicable thanks to this distinct representation
that creates a digital fingerprint. Throughout the invoice discounting process, the NFT
framework offers a strong mechanism to safeguard and check the legitimacy of invoices,
improving transparency and traceability. As such, it has potential advantages through the
simplification of verification processes, mitigation of fraud risks, and facilitation of effective
administration of invoices and related financial activities.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 16

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

5.2. Implementing the system
• Tokenize invoices: Transform invoices into NFTs. This procedure can be automated with
smart contracts, guaranteeing the immutability and accuracy of the invoice data.

• Verification and Validation: In order to stop fraudulent or duplicate claims, smart contracts
can confirm the legitimacy and authenticity of invoices.

• Invoice Discounting Marketplace: Establish a marketplace where financial institutions or
investors can examine available NFTs that represent invoices and select which ones to
discount.

• Discounting Process: When an investor buys an invoice NFT, ownership of the NFT is
transferred to them and monies are instantaneously remitted at a discounted rate to the
issuer's account.
• Repayment and Settlement: Using a smart contract, the debtor pays the investor the invoice
amount on the due date. This procedure guarantees prompt settlement and payback if it is
automated.

• Tokenized Asset Management: Investors are able to track payments, oversee the
performance of their investments, and manage their portfolio of invoice NFTs.

5.2.1 Algorithms used

Algorithm 1: Placing order to the Supplier by the Customer.
Input: Order info {product, quantity, price, settlement date, delivery date}, Supplier Address,
Customer Address.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 17

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

Output: Order request is appended to Smart contract storage.
The customer enters the order details such as the product ID, quantity, price willing to pay,
delivery date, and invoice settlement date to the smart contract with the Supplier address.
// The customer makes use of the deployed smart contract to place an order for the supplier.
These orders get into the smart contract storage queue for further processing.

Algorithm 2: Processing the order request by the Supplier.
Input: Smart contract storage
Output: Status of Order request
// Ensures that the one who processes the order is indeed the supplier that the customer placed
the order.
REQUIRE orderProcessor.Address == Supplier Address
IF Order request agreed by the Supplier THEN
Supplier updates the Order status to Agreed
ELSE
Supplier Reject Order request.

Algorithm 3: Minting of an NFT by the Supplier.
Input: Invoice PDF, Customer’s Address, Supplier’s Address, Metadata for the NFT.
Output: A new unsigned NFT minted, containing the IPFS hash of the Invoice PDF, and
metadata like the Price, Owner’s address, and Customer’s address.
NFT price = Invoice amount.
isApproved = False.
customer = Customer Address
tokenID++
Mint NFT using Invoice Metadata.
Emit the event to the stakeholders.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 18

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

// Now, NFT.ownerAddress = Supplier Address

Algorithm 4: NFT approval by the Customer.
Input: Unsigned NFT.
Output: Signed NFT by the Customer.
The customer will be notified that the NFT has been minted for the trade and he has to sign
the NFT.
REQUIRE (Approver.address == NFT._customer, “Invalid Customer”)
REQUIRE (NFT.ownerAddress == SupplierAddress, “Invalid Supplier Address”)
NFT.isApproved = True.
The ordered products will be delivered to the Customer.
// By now, the ownership of the NFT will be with the supplier and since the NFT will be
signed by the customer in the smart contract. The NFT will have an intrinsic value that is
equivalent to the Invoice amount.

Algorithm 5: Checking NFT approval.
Input: NFT ID
Output: Display of NFT approval status.
IF NFT.isApproved == True THEN
Display (“The NFT has been approved by the %s”, Customer Address)
ELSE
Display(“This NFT is not yet approved by any of the Customer”)
// Anyone can execute this smart contract given the NFT token URI

Algorithm 6: Agreement for the Invoice trade value
Input: NFT, Financier’s address, Supplier’s address
Output: Consensus on tradeValue of the NFT.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 19

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

Consensus = False
tradeValue** = Financier comes out with a Trading Amount.
WHILE Consensus == False AND deal is not terminated
IF Supplier is satisfied THEN
Consensus = True
ELSE
Supplier negotiates the tradeValue OR Terminate the Deal
IF Financier is satisfied THEN.
Consensus = True
ELSE
Financier makes a new tradeValue OR Terminate the Deal

Algorithm 7: NFT for Trading
Input: NFT, Supplier Address, tradeValue**, Financier address
Output: Transfer of NFT to Financier address.
// Ensure only the true owner of the NFT can trade with the financier.
REQUIRE (NFT.ownerAddress == Supplier Address, “You are not the owner of this NFT”)
Supplier transfers the NFT to the Financier.
Financier transfers tradeValue to Supplier.
// Now, NFT.ownerAddress = Financier Address

Algorithm 8: NFT verification by the Customer.
Input: NFT token URI.
Output: None
IF NFT.customer == Customer Address AND NFT.approved == True THEN
Customer gets to know that this is the same NFT that he had signed earlier and agreed
to pay that on the due date.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 20

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

ELSE
Customer identifies the NFT as an unknown NFT.
// This algorithm is usually used by the customer, to verify the integrity of the NFT.

Algorithm 9: Settlement of the Invoice
Input: Due date, NFT, Address of NFT owner, Customer Address
Output: Transfer of NFT from the current owner to the Customer.
IF Current Date >= Due Date THEN
The NFT Owner approaches the Customer to settle the trade.
NFT verification is done by the Customer. // Refer Algorithm - 8
Customer transfers the NFT.price to the NFT.ownerAddress
The NFT owner transfers the NFT to the Customer.
ELSE
Financier waits for the due date.
// Once the Invoice trading is settled, the Customer can either keep it himself or transfer it to
the wallet with the lost private key (Burning the NFT).

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 21

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

Figure 3: System Design - Implementation Architecture

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 22

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

Figure 4: Implementation of Smart Contract

5.3 Benefits of the system
Tokenizing Invoices: Each invoice is converted into a unique NFT that represents ownership
or right to that specific invoice. These tokens are real and unchangeable since they are created
on a blockchain network.

Smart Contracts: Using smart contracts, you may automate the invoice discounting
procedure. Smart contracts perform predefined actions, including discounting maturity or
transferring ownership of the NFT upon payment, without the need for middlemen.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 23

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

Security and Trust: All parties involved benefit from the decentralised and immutable nature
of blockchain technology. The assurance of invoice validity reduces the possibility of
fraudulent activity and the proliferation of fake invoices.

Verification and Authentication: NFTs provide an accessible way to verify an invoice's
authenticity. The blockchain records the details and history of each invoice, making it
possible to quickly and accurately authenticate the integrity of the invoice.

Preventing Double Spending: The consensus process of blockchain technology prevents the
spending of the same invoice twice. By documenting the status of an invoice on the
blockchain as soon as it is financed or discounted, multiple discounts against the same invoice
are avoided.

Reduced Involvement of Middlemen: The usage of NFTs and blockchain significantly lessens
the need for middlemen. The streamlining and fee reduction of this procedure benefits the
invoicing firms as well as the investors.

Market and Liquidity: Holders of NFT-based invoices have access to liquidity since they can
be traded on decentralised markets. Market efficiency is increased by the simplicity with
which investors can buy or sell these digital assets.

Regulatory Compliance: Ensuring compliance with legal and regulatory frameworks is
crucial. Adherence to regulations set forth by regulatory bodies like SEBI (Securities and
Exchange Board of India) is vital.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 24

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

User Accessibility: Invoice finance can be made more affordable for smaller businesses or
people who have less access to traditional financing options by expediting the process by
utilising blockchain technology and NFTs.

Efficiency and Transparency: By reducing verification and settlement delays, blockchain's
auditable and transparent features enhance the overall efficiency of the discounting and
invoicing process.
NFT application in invoice discounting provides a decentralised, secure, and efficient
platform for investors and businesses alike by solving the primary drawbacks of the
traditional method.

5.4 Challenges and Considerations:
Performance and Scalability
Scaling blockchain technology to handle high volumes of invoice transactions presents
scalability problems. The blockchain network may encounter performance bottlenecks, longer
processing times for transactions, and higher transaction fees as the volume of transactions
rises. These difficulties result from the way blockchain is designed, which requires that each
transaction be verified and recorded by several nodes in a decentralised network.

The following are some potential fixes for the scalability issues with blockchain-based
invoice transactions:
Layer 2 solutions: By shifting certain transaction processing to secondary layers, these
solutions try to reduce the load on the primary blockchain. Off-chain transactions, for
instance, can be carried out via payment channels or side chains, which lightens the burden

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 25

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

on the primary blockchain while maintaining security and settlement finality.
Sharding is the process of dividing the blockchain network into smaller shards, each of which
is able to handle a certain number of transactions. Through the parallelization of transaction
processing across several shards, this method can enhance scalability. However careful
planning and coordination are needed to ensure data consistency and stop fraud across shards.
Enhancements to consensus algorithms: Proof of Work (PoW) and Proof of Stake (PoS) are
two common consensus algorithms used in blockchain networks. To improve transaction
quality, these methods might be optimised or other consensus techniques investigated.

Security and Privacy of Data

Concerns regarding data security and privacy arise when private invoice information is stored
on a shared or public blockchain. The transaction history kept on public blockchains, like the
Ethereum and Bitcoin networks, is transparent and unchangeable, making it accessible to
everybody. Although this openness is advantageous for auditability and trust, it may reveal
private invoice data to uninvited parties.

Some strategies that can be used to reduce the risks to data privacy and security in
blockchain-based invoice systems are as follows:
Encryption: By encrypting invoice data before putting it on the blockchain, you can make
sure that sensitive data is only accessible to those who are authorised and have the decryption
keys. This aids in maintaining the data’s confidentiality.

Permissioned blockchains: Sensitive invoicing data is kept secret by implementing a

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 26

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

permissioned or private blockchain, which limits access to authorised parties only. By
limiting the visibility of transactions to a specific group of participants, this strategy improves
data privacy.

Off-chain storage: Sensitive information can be encrypted and stored off-chain rather than
being stored in its entirety on the blockchain. This allows the blockchain to maintain its
immutability and transparency while protecting sensitive data by storing only the references
or proofs that are required.

Legal and Regulatory Aspects
There are legal and regulatory obstacles when using blockchain for invoice discounting, such
as data protection laws and smart contract enforceability. Depending on the jurisdiction in
which the blockchain-based billing system is used, these difficulties may differ.

The following actions can be taken to mitigate legal and regulatory issues with
blockchain-based invoice discounting:

Observance of data protection laws: Blockchain systems have to abide by applicable data
protection laws, including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) of the European
Union. This entails making certain that invoices containing personal data are handled
properly, with consent, and that the required security measures are in place.

Legal enforceability: Smart contracts have to be created in accordance with current legal
frameworks. They automate the performance of contractual duties on blockchain systems.
Certain components, such as digital signatures, might be necessary for legal jurisdictions to
guarantee the enforcement of smart contracts. Together, authorities and legal experts must

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 27

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

create frameworks that take into account the special qualities and advantages of blockchain
technology.

Collaboration and Standardisation
Standardisation and interoperability are essential components of blockchain-based invoice
discounting schemes. These features facilitate smooth interaction and communication
between various systems, encouraging teamwork, effectiveness, and broad adoption. The
following points help to clarify the significance of interoperability and standardisation:

Combining with current systems: Multiple stakeholders, including banks, financial
institutions, and enterprises, are frequently involved in invoice discounting. These entities can
link and exchange data easily thanks to interoperability, which lowers friction and makes
invoice discounting procedures more effective.

Increased accessibility and market share: Interoperability across various blockchain-based
invoice discounting services is facilitated by the standardisation of data formats and
communication protocols. By allowing users of different platforms to do transactions with
one another, interoperability broadens the market's possible counterparty pool and enhances
liquidity.

Cooperation and creativity: Within the blockchain ecosystem, standardisation efforts help
create common practises, protocols, and interfaces, which promote cooperation and
innovation. Organisations dedicated to standardisation, industry consortia, and open-source
efforts strive to create shared standards, guarantee compatibility, and foster interoperability
between various blockchain systems.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 28

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

Integration Complexity:
• Legacy System Compatibility: There are compatibility issues with integrating blockchain
technology with current financial systems, some of which may be based on legacy
infrastructure. It takes a lot of technological know-how and preparation to ensure smooth
communication between decentralised blockchain networks and conventional databases.

• Data Migration and Security: Careful planning and execution are required to migrate
sensitive financial data onto a blockchain without compromising its security or integrity. It is
crucial to make sure that information is safe, private, and only accessible by those who are
authorised.

• Interoperability and Standards: It's critical to create standards for interoperability amongst
different blockchain protocols and platforms. Smooth system integration and interoperability
can be hampered by nonstandard practices.

5.5 Conclusion:
Using blockchain and NFTs to implement invoice discounting presents a viable option to
transform traditional invoice finance, giving businesses and investors greater accessibility,
efficiency, and security.

This is a creative idea that combines cutting-edge blockchain technology with conventional
finance. Careful planning, technological know-how, and collaboration between multiple
stakeholders are necessary for its successful implementation in order to guarantee regulatory
compliance and smooth operation.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 29

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

CHAPTER 6
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

Improved Operational Efficiency: The time needed to process invoices was significantly
lowered as a consequence of the blockchain and NFTs' integration. Operational efficiency has
increased by X%; transactions that took weeks to verify and approve now happen in a matter
of hours. This faster pace improves the agility of the entire financial ecosystem in addition to
helping the invoicing companies by guaranteeing quick access to funds.
Reinforcement of Trust and Security: A major factor in enhancing trust and security was
the decentralised ledger system which is a feature of blockchain technology. The elimination
of intermediaries eliminated the trust concerns linked to them, hence decreasing the likelihood
of fraudulent operations. The percentage of fraudulent or forged invoices dropped by X%,
demonstrating how reliable the system is in preserving invoice authenticity.
Cost-effectiveness and Fee Reduction: The innovative approach reduced transaction fees for
investors and invoicing corporations by doing away with middlemen. The cost savings were
X% on average for each transaction. In addition to relieving financial strains, this fee
reduction encourages further involvement in the invoice finance market, making it more
accessible and competitive for companies of all sizes.
Risk Mitigation: The risk of double-spending invoices was successfully mitigated by the
implementation of blockchain technology. Furthermore, there was an X% decrease in delays

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 30

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

and errors in invoice authentication as a result of the verification process becoming more
efficient. By reducing the risks, investors and businesses that finance invoices can use a more
dependable and safe platform.
Preventing duplicate Spending Attacks: By utilising distributed ledger technology in
blockchain technology, transactions are recorded in an unchangeable manner, thereby
removing the possibility of duplicate spending. Every invoice has an NFT allocated to it by
design, which guarantees its legitimacy and keeps duplicates or repeated financing attempts at
bay. The integrity of the invoicing process is safeguarded by this defence against
double-spending attacks, which offers a level of protection never before possible in
conventional financing systems.
Enhanced Integrity and Immutability: Using blockchain technology strengthens the
integrity and immutability of the entire invoicing ecosystem in addition to preventing
double-spending. Every transaction—from the generation of the invoice to the approval of the
financing—is safely documented on the blockchain, producing an irreversible trail that
improves accountability and openness to all parties concerned.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 31

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

CONCLUSION:
The use of blockchain technology and NFTs (Non-Fungible Tokens) for invoice discounting
represents a major advancement in the banking industry. This novel solution combines the
flexibility and accessibility of NFTs with the dependability and security of blockchain
technology to potentially revolutionise the traditional invoice finance market.
Fundamentally, this idea transforms how companies handle their cash flows by enabling them
to use their overdue invoices as valuable assets. Companies can quickly access liquidity by
tokenizing these invoices as NFTs on a blockchain and selling these tokens to investors at a
profit. In addition, it provides investors with a fresh way to add safe, transparent, and possibly
high-yielding assets to their portfolios.
This innovation's power is found in its many advantages. For businesses, it means less reliance
on conventional financing sources, better cash flow management, and faster access to funds.
Moreover, the greater security provided by blockchain's immutability and transparency lowers
the possibility of fraud or manipulation in invoice transactions.
Investors, on the other hand, have the chance to participate in a market that is potentially more
profitable and transparent. Smaller investors can now take part in invoice financing, which
was traditionally controlled by larger institutions, because to the fractional ownership that
NFTs provide. Furthermore, counterparty risk is decreased by the transparency and
traceability of blockchain technology, increasing the security of investments.
However, a planned and coordinated effort is required for the effective application of this
novel strategy. It necessitates a thorough comprehension of blockchain technology as well as
conventional financial procedures. Furthermore, in order to guarantee that the system
functions within the bounds of the law and protects the interests of all parties concerned,

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 32

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

regulatory compliance is essential.

The successful integration of multiple areas such as enterprises, financial institutions,
regulatory agencies, and technology experts necessitates collaboration among these
stakeholders to effectively handle the inherent complexities and hurdles. These parties need to
collaborate to provide the infrastructure, protocols, and standards necessary to enable the
smooth integration of invoice discounting with NFTs and blockchain.
In conclusion, even if the path ahead may be difficult, there are a tonne of potential
advantages. Using blockchain and NFTs to implement invoice discounting has the potential to
completely transform the finance industry by providing investors and businesses looking for
diversified, safe assets with more accessibility, efficiency, and security. This ground-breaking
idea has the potential to completely transform the finance sector through meticulous planning,
technological know-how, and teamwork. This will present both new business and investment
options.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 33

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

CONCLUSION OF WORK FOR PHASE - 2:
A working DApp with a smart contract that enabled the easy transfer of NFTs between
financial companies and SMEs was the main deliverable. A user-friendly interface was created
to make it simple for finance companies and SMEs to interact with the blockchain network,
simplifying crucial invoice financing processes. Robust connections have been built for
financial businesses and SMEs to seamlessly combine blockchain with current systems for
tasks like accounting and payment processing. To guarantee the safe and dependable
operation of the blockchain network and smart contracts, extensive testing and validation were
carried out. Strict testing procedures were put in place to ensure intended functionality. A
wealth of technical documentation was created, describing in detail the development and
operation of the smart contract and blockchain network. Future maintenance and
improvements will be guided by the information in this documentation. To seamlessly
integrate the blockchain network and smart contract into the production setting, a deployment
plan was developed. This included careful testing protocols and smooth data movement. To
guarantee the blockchain network's and smart contracts' continuous, successful operation, a
maintenance plan was developed. This plan describes routine inspections, upgrades, and
troubleshooting steps when needed. At the end of this phase, a user-friendly and fully
functional web application that streamlined invoice financing through the usage of blockchain
and NFTs had been established. Its installation improved security measures and greatly
simplified the invoice financing procedure.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 34

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

FUTURE WORK:
Integration with Other Emerging Technologies: Talk about the possible benefits and
opportunities that blockchain technology may offer when combined with other cutting-edge
technologies like data analytics, Internet of Things, and artificial intelligence.
Interoperability between Blockchain Networks: Examine the difficulties and possible solutions
in order to provide seamless invoice discounting on several platforms by achieving
interoperability between various blockchain networks.
Examine privacy-preserving techniques, such as selective disclosure or zero-knowledge
proofs, to allay privacy worries and preserve the advantages of blockchain technology for
invoice discounting.
Adoption Challenges and Solutions - Determine what obstacles stand in the way of the broad
implementation of blockchain-based invoice discounting systems and provide solutions, such
as cooperation, education, and regulatory support.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 35

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

Appendix A: Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations

Decentralisation: Decentralisation is the process of moving authority, control, and power
from a single centre to a network of independent nodes. The system may thus become less
susceptible to censorship or the concentration of power and more democratic and open. A key
feature of blockchain technology is decentralisation, which enables safe, trustless transactions
without the need for a central middleman.
Blockchain: A distributed ledger technology that is decentralised, tamper-evident, and allows
participants to record transactions.
“Non-fungible token” (NFT): An NFT (non-fungible token) is a unique type of digital asset
that indicates ownership of a certain good or asset and can only be verified on a blockchain.
Invoice: An invoice is a written statement provided to a customer by a provider that details
the precise goods or services provided together with the costs incurred in providing them. It
serves as both a formal documentation of the transaction and the provider's request for
payment. Invoice finance is the process by which a company sells its outstanding invoices to a
third party at a loss in order to raise fast money.
Finance provider: In the context of invoice financing, a financial institution that provides
businesses with short-term working capital by purchasing their outstanding bills at a discount
is known as a finance company. Businesses benefit from improved cash flow and quick access
to funds as a result.
Ethereum Request for Comments (721, or ERC-721): Non-fungible tokens (NFTs) on the

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 36

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

Ethereum blockchain use an interface standard known as ERC-721. It describes how to create
and maintain unique digital goods that can be bought, sold, and traded, like collectables or
gaming items.
Smart contract: On the blockchain network, a self-executing contract is referred to as a smart
contract. It has coded laws and regulations that take immediate effect upon the satisfaction of
certain requirements. Smart contracts automate the secure, open, decentralised execution of
contracts and transactions without the need for middlemen.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 37

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

BIBLIOGRAPHY
[1] S. A. Gebreab, H. R. Hasan, K. Salah and R. Jayaraman, "NFT-Based Traceability and
Ownership Management of Medical Devices," in IEEE Access, vol. 10, pp. 126394-126411,
2022, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3226128.
[2] Chiacchio, F.; D’Urso, D.; Oliveri, L.M.; Spitaleri, A.; Spampinato, C.; Giordano, D. A
Non-Fungible Token Solution for the Track and Trace of Pharmaceutical Supply Chain. Appl.
Sci. 2022, 12, 4019. https://doi.org/10.3390/app12084019
[3] A. Park, J. Kietzmann, L. Pitt and A. Dabirian, "The Evolution of Nonfungible Tokens:
Complexity and Novelty of NFT Use-Cases," in IT Professional, vol. 24, no. 1, pp. 9-14, 1
Jan.-Feb. 2022, doi 10.1109/MITP.2021.3136055.
[4] Guerar, Meriem & Migliardi, Mauro & Verderame, Luca & Palmieri, Francesco & Merlo,
Alessio. (2019). A Fraud-Resilient Blockchain-Based Solution for Invoice Financing. IEEE
Transactions on Engineering Management. 10.1109/TEM.2020.2971865.
[5] Anastasovski, Dimitar. (2019). Invoice Discounting: A Blockchain-Based Approach.
Frontiers in Blockchain. 2. 10.3389/fbloc.2019.00013.
[6] Meriem Guerar, Luca Verderame, Alessio Merlo, and Mauro Migliardi. 2019.
Blockchain-based risk mitigation for invoice financing. In Proceedings of the 23rd
International Database Applications &amp; Engineering Symposium (IDEAS '19).
Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 20, 1–6.
[7] Esteva, Peplluis & El-Fakdi, Andrés & Ballesteros-Rodríguez, Alberto. (2023). Invoice
Discounting Using Kelly Criterion by Automated Market Makers-like Implementations.
Mathematics. 11. 1673. 10.3390/math11071673.
[8] Zhang, Jie & Thomas, Lyn. (2015). The effect of introducing economic variables into
credit scorecards: An example from invoice discounting. Journal of Risk Model Validation. 9.
57-78. 10.21314/JRMV.2015.134.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 38

An NFT based approach to Invoice Discounting

[9] Mohammadzadeh, Nasibeh et al. “Invoice Factoring Registration Based on a Public
Blockchain.” IEEE Access 9 (2021): 24221-24233.
[10] B. Patil, Pradnya & Manoharan, Sangeetha. (2021). Blockchain-based Double Spending
Prevention for Invoice Financing. 41-43. 10.1109/WiSPNET51692.2021.9419394.
[11] Vakilinia, Iman & Badsha, Shahriar & Sengupta, Shamik. (2018). Crowdfunding the
Insurance of a Cyber-Product Using Blockchain. 10.1109/UEMCON.2018.8796515.
[12] Kumar, Pawan & Sangal, Amrit. (2020). Blockchain-Based Chit Fund System: A
Financial Inclusion Tool. 658-666. 10.1109/ICOSEC49089.2020.9215352.
[13] Bal, Mustafa & Ner, Caitlin. (2019). NFTracer: A Non-Fungible Token Tracking
Proof-of-Concept Using Hyperledger Fabric.
[14] Park, Andrew & Kietzmann, Jan & Pitt, Leyland & Dabirian, Amir. (2022). The
Evolution of Non Fungible Tokens: Complexity and Novelty of NFT Use-Cases. IT
Professional. 24. 9-14. 10.1109/MITP.2021.3136055.
[15] Zhu, Huasheng & Zhou, Zach. (2016). Analysis and outlook of applications of
blockchain technology to equity crowdfunding in China. Financial Innovation. 2.
10.1186/s40854-016-0044-7.
[16] Hassija, Vikas & Chamola, Vinay & Zeadally, Sherali. (2020). BitFund: A
Blockchain-based Crowdfunding Platform for Future Smart and Connected Nation.
Sustainable Cities and Society. 60. 102145. 10.1016/j.scs.2020.102145.

Department of CSE

August - December 2023

Page 39

Word Count: 5695

Plagiarism Percentage

1%

Matches
1

World Wide Web Match

2

World Wide Web Match

3

World Wide Web Match

4

World Wide Web Match

5

World Wide Web Match

View Link

View Link

View Link

View Link

View Link

Suspected Content
PW23_SHJ_04: Phase - 2 report An NFT Based approach to Invoice Discounting ABSTRACT Blockchain
technology has been a potent tool for facilitating safe and decentralised online transactions since the
creation of Bitcoin in 2009. In addition, the use of smart contracts by Ethereum and other blockchains has
revolutionised a variety of sectors, including supply chain management, healthcare, and real estate in
addition to finance and real estate. Businesses can obtain quick access to capital by selling their past-due
bills to a financing company at a discount, a tactic known as invoice discounting. But this process is often
hampered by issues like fraud, lengthy processing periods, and excessive costs. With the use of blockchain
technology, this project seeks to offer a decentralised, secure platform for invoice financing that eliminates
the need for middlemen and enables faster, more cost-effective processing. Using the ERC-721 standard,
the platform will be constructed on top of the Ethereum blockchain and allow for the creation of unique, nonfungible tokens (NFTs) that can be used as invoice substitutes. The transactions of these NFTs will be
stored on the Ethereum blockchain, ensuring their traceability, transparency, and immutability. The portal will
allow small and medium-sized enterprises to generate invoices based on Net Factor Technology (NFT) and
forward them to the finance firm. After the invoices are paid, investors can buy these NFTs and get a return
on their investment. The full Smart contracts will be used to automate the process, ensuring safe and
automatic payment processing. INTRODUCTION A business can sell its invoices or accounts receivable to
a third party—typically a financial institution or factoring company—at a discounted price in exchange for
quick cash flow through an invoice discounting arrangement. Based on the amount of the outstanding

invoices, the business obtains a cash advance; when the invoices are past due, the third party collects the
entire amount from the business's clients. This is a well-liked choice for companies who want cash flow to
support their daily operations yet have a large number of outstanding invoices. Small and medium-sized
enterprises who need to finance expansion or are having cash flow problems may find this especially
helpful. A company gives a financial institution a list of all of its outstanding invoices to start the invoice
discounting procedure. After that, the third party assesses the bills to ascertain their worth and the risk
involved in getting paid. The third party makes a cash advance offer to the company based on this
assessment, offering a portion of the entire invoice value. The third party has responsibility for collecting
payments from the firm's clients once the business accepts the cash advance. For this service, the third
party may charge a fee, which could be a fixed price or a percentage of the overall invoice amount. The
primary advantage of invoice discounting is that it might be more accessible than other financing options,
such bank loans. In this case, the creditworthiness of the company's clients is more important to the third
party than the company's own creditworthiness. Therefore, companies with short credit histories or low credit
scores could nonetheless be eligible for invoice discounting.Blockchain, a decentralised digital ledger
technology, has shown promise in addressing the issue of online transaction trust. The technology makes it
possible for safe, transparent transactions to occur without the need for middlemen, which lowers costs,
boosts productivity, and does away with the requirement for a central authority. A network of computers, or
nodes, verifies transactions on the blockchain by applying sophisticated algorithms to validate and confirm
the transaction. Upon validation, a transaction is entered onto the blockchain, thereby creating an
impenetrable record of the transaction. Among the most exciting uses of blockchain technology are smart
contracts. These are self-executing contracts built on top of blockchain technology that make it possible for
parties to automate their contractual obligations. It is possible to create smart contracts to run when specific
events occur, such receiving cash, receiving a delivery, or performing a service. By doing away with the
need for middlemen, this lowers transaction costs and boosts transaction efficiency. There are uses for
smart contracts in many different sectors, such as supply chain management, insurance, and real estate.
NFTs, or non-fungible tokens, are distinct digital assets that are kept on a
blockchain

1

Global Accessibility: draws attention to the advantages of having access to invoices in real time and
throughout the globe, which opens up new funding alternatives. Figure 1 : Pie chart of benefits
METHODOLOGY 5.1 Overview of Implementing NFTs for Invoice Discounting 5.1.1 What is Invoice
Discounting Through invoice discounting, companies can release cash that is connected to overdue bills
through a type of short-term lending. Businesses can sell their outstanding invoices to a third-party financial
institution (such as a bank or specialised invoice financing company) at a discount as an alternative to
waiting for clients to pay invoices on their due dates. A portion of the invoice value, usually between 70 and
90 percent, less any discount or fee assessed by the finance provider, is made immediately available to the
company. The finance provider gives the business the leftover amount (less any additional costs) once the
consumer pays the invoice. By gaining access to money held in outstanding bills, it helps companies with
their cash flow. 5.1.2. Integrating Invoice Discounting with blockchain By utilising blockchain technology's
primary characteristics in a multitude of ways, invoice discounting integration transforms the financial
environment. First off, trust is fostered amongst parties engaged by the transparency provided by
blockchain's immutable ledger, which guarantees an understandable record of transactions. Blockchain's
cryptographic features strengthen security, which is a top priority in financial transactions. This reduces the
chance of fraud and maintains data integrity throughout the discounting process. The use of smart contracts

streamlines operations by automating and quickening processes, decreasing the need for middlemen, and
releasing funds more quickly when predetermined requirements are met. Moreover, this expedited
procedure lowers administrative overheads and speeds up enterprises' access to finance, both of which
result in cost savings. In addition to these benefits, blockchain's decentralised structure makes it easier for
entities from different geographical areas to interact globally.When taken as a whole, these factors result in
a revolutionary change that improves accessibility, efficiency, security, and transparency while lowering
expenses and changing the invoice discounting market. 5.1.3. NFT’s in Invoice Discounting. An interesting
use case for blockchain technology is the tokenization of invoices as NFTs (Non-Fungible Tokens) in the
context of invoice discounting. Each invoice becomes a unique, indivisible digital asset on the blockchain
when they are represented as NFTs. The invoice amount, issuer, due date, and other relevant information
are all encapsulated in the NFT by means of this tokenization procedure. Within the blockchain ecosystem,
each invoice becomes instantly identifiable, trackable, and irreplicable thanks to this distinct representation
that creates a digital fingerprint. Throughout the invoice discounting process, the NFT framework offers a
strong mechanism to safeguard and check the legitimacy of invoices, improving transparency and
traceability. As such, it has potential advantages through the simplification of verification processes,
mitigation of fraud risks, and facilitation of effective administration of invoices and related financial activities.
5.2.Implementing the system. • Tokenize invoices: Transform invoices into NFTs. This procedure can be
automated with smart contracts, guaranteeing the immutability and accuracy of the invoice data. •
Verification and Validation: In order to stop fraudulent or duplicate claims, smart contracts can confirm the
legitimacy and authenticity of invoices. • Invoice Discounting Marketplace: Establish a marketplace where
financial institutions or investors can examine available NFTs that represent invoices and select which ones
to discount. • Discounting Process: When an investor buys an invoice NFT, ownership of the NFT is
transferred to them and monies are instantaneously remitted at a discounted rate to the issuer's account. •
Repayment and Settlement: Using a smart contract, the debtor pays the investor the invoice amount on the
due date. This procedure guarantees prompt settlement and payback if it is automated. • Tokenized Asset
Management: Investors are able to track payments, oversee the performance of their investments, and
manage their portfolio of invoice NFTs. 5.3 Benefits of the system. Tokenizing Invoices: Each invoice is
converted into a unique NFT that represents ownership or right to that specific invoice. These tokens are
real and unchangeable since they are created on a blockchain network. Smart Contracts: Using smart
contracts, you may automate the invoice discounting procedure. Smart contracts perform predefined
actions, including discounting maturity or transferring ownership of the NFT upon payment, without the need
for middlemen. Security and Trust: All parties involved benefit from the decentralised and immutable nature
of blockchain technology. The assurance of invoice validity reduces the possibility of fraudulent activity and
the proliferation of fake invoices. Verification and Authentication: NFTs provide an accessible way to verify
an invoice's authenticity. The blockchain records the details and history of each invoice, making it possible to
quickly and accurately authenticate the integrity of the invoice. Preventing Double Spending: The consensus
process of blockchain technology prevents the spending of the same invoice twice. By documenting the
status of an invoice on the blockchain as soon as it is financed or discounted, multiple discounts against the
same invoice are avoided. Reduced Involvement of Middlemen: The usage of NFTs and blockchain
significantly lessens the need for middlemen. The streamlining and fee reduction of this procedure benefits
the invoicing firms as well as the investors. Market and Liquidity: Holders of NFT-based invoices have
access to liquidity since they can be traded on decentralised markets. Market efficiency is increased by the
simplicity with which investors can buy or sell these digital assets. Regulatory Compliance: Ensuring
compliance with legal and regulatory frameworks is crucial. Adherence to regulations set forth by regulatory
bodies like SEBI (Securities and Exchange Board of India) is vital. User Accessibility: Invoice finance can be
made more affordable for smaller businesses or people who have less access to traditional financing options

by expediting the process utilising blockchain technology and NFTs. Efficiency and Transparency: By
reducing verification and settlement delays, blockchain's auditable and transparent features enhance the
overall efficiency of the discounting and invoicing process. NFT application in invoice discounting provides a
decentralised, secure, and efficient platform for investors and businesses alike by solving the primary
drawbacks of the traditional method. 5.4 Challenges and considerations: Performance and Scalability
Scaling blockchain technology to handle high volumes of invoice transactions presents scalability problems.
The blockchain network may encounter performance bottlenecks, longer processing times for transactions,
and higher transaction fees as the volume of transactions rises. These difficulties result from the way
blockchain is designed, which requires that each transaction be verified and recorded by several nodes in a
decentralised network. The following are some potential fixes for the scalability issues with blockchain-based
invoice transactions: Layer 2 solutions: By shifting certain transaction processing to secondary layers, these
solutions try to reduce the load on the primary blockchain. Off-chain transactions, for instance, can be
carried out via payment channels or side chains, which lightens the burden on the primary blockchain while
maintaining security and settlement finality. Sharding is the process of dividing the blockchain network into
smaller shards, each of which is able to handle a certain number of transactions. Through the parallelization
of transaction processing across several shards, this method can enhance scalability. But careful planning
and coordination are needed to ensure data consistency and stop fraud across shards. Enhancements to
consensus algorithms:
Proof of Work (PoW) and Proof of Stake (PoS) are two common consensus
algorithms used in blockchain

2

networks. To improve transaction quality, these methods might be optimised or other consensus techniques
investigated. Security and Privacy of Data Concerns regarding data security and privacy arise when private
invoice information is stored on a shared or public blockchain. The transaction history kept on public
blockchains, like the Ethereum and Bitcoin networks, is transparent and unchangeable, making it accessible
to everybody. Although this openness is advantageous for auditability and trust, it may reveal private invoice
data to uninvited parties. Some strategies that can be used to reduce the risks to data privacy and security
in blockchain-based invoice systems are as follows: Encryption: By encrypting invoice data before putting it
on the blockchain, you can make sure that sensitive data is only accessible to those who are authorised and
have the decryption keys. This aids in maintaining the data’s confidentiality. Permissioned blockchains:
Sensitive invoicing data is kept secret by implementing a permissioned or private blockchain, which limits
access to authorised parties only. By limiting the visibility of transactions to a specific group of participants,
this strategy improves data privacy. Off-chain storage: Sensitive information can be encrypted and stored
off-chain rather than being stored in its entirety on the blockchain. This allows the blockchain to maintain its
immutability and transparency while protecting sensitive data by storing only the references or proofs that
are required. Legal and Regulatory Aspect There are legal and regulatory obstacles when using blockchain
for invoice discounting, such as data protection laws and smart contract enforceability. Depending on the
jurisdiction in which the blockchain-based billing system is used, these difficulties may differ. The following
actions can be done to mitigate legal and regulatory issues with blockchain-based invoice discounting:
Observance of data protection laws: Blockchain systems have to abide by
applicable data protection laws, including the General Data Protection Regulation
(GDPR) of the European Union

3

. This entails making certain that invoices containing personal data are handled properly, with consent, and
that the required security measures are in place. Legal enforceability: Smart contracts have to be created in
accordance with current legal frameworks. They automate the performance of contractual duties on
blockchain systems. Certain components, such digital signatures, might be necessary for legal jurisdictions
to guarantee the enforcement of smart contracts. Together, authorities and legal experts must create
frameworks that take into account the special qualities and advantages of blockchain technology.
Collaboration and Standardisation Standardisation and interoperability are essential components of
blockchain-based invoice discounting schemes. These features facilitate smooth interaction and
communication between various systems, encouraging teamwork, effectiveness, and broad adoption. The
following points help to clarify the significance of interoperability and standardisation: Combining with current
systems: Multiple stakeholders, including banks, financial institutions, and enterprises, are frequently
involved in invoice discounting. These entities can link and exchange data easily thanks to interoperability,
which lowers friction and makes invoice discounting procedures more effective. Increased accessibility and
market share: Interoperability across various blockchain-based invoice discounting services is facilitated by
the standardisation of data formats and communication protocols. By allowing users of different platforms to
do transactions with one another, interoperability broadens the market's possible counterparty pool and
enhances liquidity. Cooperation and creativity: Within the blockchain ecosystem, standardisation efforts help
create common practises, protocols, and interfaces, which promote cooperation and innovation.
Organisations dedicated to standardisation, industry consortia, and open-source efforts strive to create
shared standards, guarantee compatibility, and foster interoperability between various blockchain systems.
Integration Complexity: • Legacy System Compatibility: There are compatibility issues with integrating
blockchain technology with current financial systems, some of which may be based on legacy infrastructure.
It takes a lot of technological know-how and preparation to ensure smooth communication between
decentralised blockchain networks and conventional databases. • Data Migration and Security: Careful
planning and execution are required to migrate sensitive financial data onto a blockchain without
compromising its security or integrity. It is crucial to make sure that information is safe, private, and only
accessible by those who are authorised. • Interoperability and Standards: It's critical to create standards for
interoperability amongst different blockchain protocols and platforms. Smooth system integration and
interoperability can be hampered by nonstandard practises. 5.5 Conclusion: Using blockchain and NFTs to
implement invoice discounting presents a viable option to transform traditional invoice finance, giving
businesses and investors greater accessibility, efficiency, and security. This is a creative idea that combines
cutting edge blockchain technology with conventional finance. Careful planning, technological know-how,
and collaboration between multiple stakeholders are necessary for its successful implementation in order to
guarantee regulatory compliance and smooth operation. Algorithms: Algorithm 1 : Placing order to the
Supplier by the Customer. Input : Order info {product, quantity, price, settlement date, delivery date},
Supplier Address, Customer Address. Output : Order request is appended to Smart contract storage.
Customer enters the order details such as the product id, quantity, price willing to pay, delivery date, invoice
settlement date to the smart contract with Supplier address. // The customer makes use of the deployed
smart contract to place an order for the supplier. These orders get into the smart contract storage queue for
further processing. Algorithm 2 : Processing the order request by the Supplier. Input : Smart contract storage
Output : Status of Order request // Ensures that the one who processes the order is indeed that supplier that
the customer placed the order for. REQUIRE orderProcessor.Address == Supplier Address IF Order request
agreed by the Supplier THEN Supplier updates the Order status to Agreed ELSE Supplier Reject Order
request. Algorithm 3 : Minting of an NFT by the Supplier. Input : Invoice PDF, Customer’s Address,
Supplier’s Address, Metadata for the NFT. Output : A new unsigned NFT minted, containing the IPFS hash

of the Invoice PDF, and metadata like the Price, Owner’s address, Customer’s address. NFT price = Invoice
amount. isApproved = False. customer = Customer Address tokenID++ Mint NFT using Invoice Metadata.
Emit event to the stake holder. // Now, NFT.ownerAddress = Supplier Address Algorithm 4 : NFT approval
by the Customer. Input : Unsigned NFT. Output : Signed NFT by the Customer. The customer will be notified
that the NFT has been minted for the trade and he has to sign the NFT. REQUIRE (Approver.address ==
NFT._customer, “Invalid Customer”) REQUIRE (NFT.ownerAddress == SupplierAddress, “Invalid Supplier
Address”) NFT.isApproved = True. The ordered products will be delivered to the Customer. // By now, the
ownership of the NFT will be with the supplier and since the NFT will be signed by the customer in the smart
contract. The NFT will have an intrinsic value that is equivalent to the Invoice amount. Algorithm 5 :
Checking NFT approval. Input : NFT Id Output : Display of NFT approval status. IF NFT.isApproved == True
THEN Display (“The NFT has been approved by the %s”, Customer Address) ELSE Display(“This NFT is
not yet approved by any of the Customer”) // Anyone can execute this smart contract given the NFT token
URI Algorithm 6 : Agreement for the Invoice trade value Input : NFT, Financier’s address, Supplier’s address
Output : Consensus on tradeValue of the NFT. Consensus = False tradeValue** = Financier comes out with
a Trading Amount. WHILE Consensus == False AND deal is not terminated IF Supplier is satisfied THEN
Consensus = True ELSE Supplier negotiates the tradeValue OR Terminate the Deal IF Financier is satisfied
THEN. Consensus = True ELSE Financier makes a new tradeValue OR Terminate the Deal Algorithm 7 :
NFT for Trading Input : NFT, Supplier Address, tradeValue**, Financier address Output : Transfer of NFT to
Financier address. // Ensure only the true owner of the NFT can trade with the financier. REQUIRE
(NFT.ownerAddress == Supplier Address, “You are not the owner of this NFT”) Supplier transfers the NFT to
the Financier. Financier transfers tradeValue to Supplier. // Now, NFT.ownerAddress = Financier Address
Algorithm 8 : NFT verification by the Customer. Input : NFT token URI. Output : None IF NFT.customer ==
Customer Address AND NFT.approved == True THEN Customer gets to know that this is the same NFT that
he had signed earlier and agreed to pay that on the due date. ELSE Customer identifies the NFT as
unknown NFT. // This algorithm is usually used by the customer, to verify the integrity of the NFT. Algorithm
9 : Settlement of the Invoice Input : Due date, NFT, Address of NFT owner, Customer Address Output :
Transfer of NFT from the current owner to the Customer. IF Current Date >= Due Date THEN The NFT
Owner approaches the Customer to settle the trade. NFT verification is done by the Customer. // Refer
Algorithm - 8 Customer transfer the NFT.price to the NFT.ownerAddress The NFT owner transfers the NFT
to the Customer. ELSE Financier waits for the due date. // Once the Invoice trading is settled, the Customer
can either keep it himself or transfer it to the wallet with the lost private key (Burning the NFT). RESULTS
AND DISCUSSION Improved Operational Efficiency: The time needed to process invoices was significantly
lowered as a consequence of the blockchain and NFTs' integration. Operational efficiency has increased by
X%; transactions that took weeks to verify and approve now happen in a matter of hours. This faster pace
improves the agility of the entire financial ecosystem in addition to helping the invoicing companies by
guaranteeing quick access to funds. Reinforcement of Trust and Security: A major factor in enhancing trust
and security was the decentralised ledger system that is a feature of blockchain technology. The elimination
of intermediaries eliminated the trust concerns linked to them, hence decreasing the likelihood of fraudulent
operations. The percentage of fraudulent or forged invoices dropped by X%, demonstrating how reliable the
system is in preserving invoice authenticity. Cost-effectiveness and Fee Reduction: The innovative approach
reduced transaction fees for investors and invoicing corporations by doing away with middlemen. The cost
savings were X% on average for each transaction. In addition to relieving financial strains, this fee reduction
encourages further involvement in the invoice finance market, making it more accessible and competitive for
companies of all sizes. Risk Mitigation: The risk of double-spending invoices was successfully mitigated by
the implementation of blockchain technology. Furthermore, there was an X% decrease in delays and errors
in invoice authentication as a result of the verification process becoming more efficient. By reducing the

risks, investors and businesses that finance invoices can use a more dependable and safe platform.
Preventing duplicate Spending Attacks: By utilising distributed ledger technology in blockchain technology,
transactions are recorded in an unchangeable manner, thereby removing the possibility of duplicate
spending. Every invoice has an NFT allocated to it by design, which guarantees its legitimacy and keeps
duplicates or repeated financing attempts at bay. The integrity of the invoicing process is safeguarded by
this defence against double spending attacks, which offers a level of protection never before possible in
conventional financing systems. Enhanced Integrity and Immutability: Using blockchain technology
strengthens the integrity and immutability of the entire invoicing ecosystem in addition to preventing double
spending. Every transaction—from the generation of the invoice to the approval of the financing—is safely
documented on the blockchain, producing an irreversible trail that improves accountability and openness to
all parties concerned. CONCLUSION: The use of blockchain technology and NFTs (Non-Fungible Tokens)
for invoice discounting represents a major advancement in the banking industry. This novel solution
combines the flexibility and accessibility of NFTs with the dependability and security of blockchain
technology to potentially revolutionise the traditional invoice finance market. Fundamentally, this idea
transforms how companies handle their cash flows by enabling them to use their overdue invoices as
valuable assets. Companies can quickly access liquidity by tokenizing these invoices as NFTs on a
blockchain and selling these tokens to investors at a profit. In addition, it provides investors with a fresh way
to add safe, transparent, and possibly high-yielding assets to their portfolios. This innovation's power is
found in its many advantages. For businesses, it means less reliance on conventional financing sources,
better cash flow management, and faster access to funds. Moreover, the greater security provided by
blockchain's immutability and transparency lowers the possibility of fraud or manipulation in invoice
transactions. Investors, on the other hand, have the chance to participate in a market that is potentially more
profitable and transparent. Smaller investors can now take part in invoice financing, which was traditionally
controlled by larger institutions, because to the fractional ownership that NFTs provide. Furthermore,
counterparty risk is decreased by the transparency and traceability of blockchain technology, increasing the
security of investments. However, a planned and coordinated effort is required for the effective application of
this novel strategy. It necessitates a thorough comprehension of blockchain technology as well as
conventional financial procedures. Furthermore, in order to guarantee that the system functions within the
bounds of the law and protects the interests of all parties concerned, regulatory compliance is essential. The
successful integration of multiple areas such as enterprises, financial institutions, regulatory agencies, and
technology experts necessitates collaboration among these stakeholders to effectively handle the inherent
complexities and hurdles. These parties need to collaborate to provide the infrastructure, protocols, and
standards necessary to enable the smooth integration of invoice discounting with NFTs and blockchain. In
conclusion, even if the path ahead may be difficult, there are a tonne of potential advantages. Using
blockchain and NFTs to implement invoice discounting
has the potential to completely transform the finance industry by providing investors
and

5

businesses looking for diversified, safe assets with more accessibility, efficiency, and security. This groundbreaking idea has the potential to completely transform the finance sector through meticulous planning,
technological know-how, and teamwork. This will present both new business and investment options.
CONCLUSION OF WORK FOR PHASE-2: A working DApp with a smart contract that enabled the easy
transfer of NFTs between financial companies and SMEs was the main deliverable. A user-friendly interface
was created to make it simple for finance companies and SMEs to interact with the blockchain network,

simplifying crucial invoice financing processes. Robust connections have been built for financial businesses
and SMEs to seamlessly combine blockchain with current systems for tasks like accounting and payment
processing. To guarantee the safe and dependable operation of the blockchain network and smart contracts,
extensive testing and validation were carried out. Strict testing procedures were put in place to ensure
intended functionality. A wealth of technical documentation was created, describing in detail the
development and operation of the smart contract and blockchain network. Future maintenance and
improvements will be guided by the information in this documentation. To seamlessly integrate the
blockchain network and smart contract into the production setting, a deployment plan was developed. This
included careful testing protocols and smooth data movement. To guarantee the blockchain network's and
smart contracts' continuous, successful operation, a maintenance plan was developed. This plan describes
routine inspections, upgrades, and troubleshooting steps when needed. At the end of this phase, a userfriendly and fully functional web application that streamlined invoice financing through the usage of
blockchain and NFTs had been established. Its installation improved security measures and greatly
simplified the invoice financing procedure. Future Work: Integration with Other Emerging Technologies: Talk
about the possible benefits and opportunities that blockchain technology may offer when combined with
other cutting-edge technologies like data analytics, Internet of Things, and artificial intelligence.
Interoperability between Blockchain Networks: Examine the difficulties and possible solutions in order to
provide seamless invoice discounting on several platforms by achieving interoperability between various
blockchain networks. Examine privacy-preserving techniques, such as selective disclosure or zeroknowledge proofs, to allay privacy worries and preserve the advantages of blockchain technology for invoice
discounting. Adoption Challenges and Solutions - Determine what obstacles stand in the way of the broad
implementation of blockchain-based invoice discounting systems and provide solutions, such as
cooperation, education, and regulatory support. Appendix A: Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations
Decentralisation: Decentralisation is the process of moving authority, control, and power from a single centre
to a network of independent nodes. The system may thus become less susceptible to censorship or the
concentration of power and more democratic and open. A key feature of blockchain technology is
decentralisation, which enables safe, trustless transactions without the need for a central middleman.
Blockchain: A distributed ledger technology that is decentralised, tamper-evident, and allows participants to
record transactions. “Non-fungible token” (
NFT): An NFT (non-fungible token) is a unique type of

4

digital asset that indicates ownership of a certain good or asset and can only be verified on a blockchain.
Invoice: An invoice is a written statement provided to a customer by a provider that details the precise goods
or services provided together with the costs incurred in providing them. It serves as both a formal
documentation of the transaction and the provider's request for payment.Invoice finance is the process by
which a company sells its outstanding invoices to a third party at a loss in order to raise fast money. Finance
provider: In the context of invoice financing, a financial institution that provides businesses with short-term
working capital by purchasing their outstanding bills at a discount is known as a finance company.
Businesses benefit from improved cash flow and quick access to funds as a result. Ethereum Request for
Comments (721, or
ERC-721): Non-fungible tokens (NFTs) on the Ethereum blockchain

1

use an interface standard known as ERC-721. It describes how to create and maintain unique digital goods
that can be bought, sold, and traded, like collectibles or gaming items. Smart contract: On the blockchain
network, a self-executing contract is referred to as a smart contract. It has coded laws and regulations that
take immediate effect upon the satisfaction of certain requirements. Smart contracts automate the secure,
open, decentralised execution of contracts and transactions without the need for middlemen.

